You know, probably John Pearson termination was partially he took a side and his side lost.
So, you know, those were not good times internal politically.
But we grew out of that.
We grew out of that.
And the college, and maybe John leaving,
at that time was just the time for John to leave anyway, because Muse came in, and then Mobley came in, and Benton has come in, and Don Hellriegel has been underpinning on this, and our college, I think we've got a great college.
When did y'all begin to feel that business was being treated with the same kind of favoritism that agriculture and engineering supposedly had had all through the years?
Well, I think it began with Muse at some place.
Not at the beginning with Muse, but towards, and then particularly with Mobley.
And the advisory committees do a lot of this.
The advisory committees began to make statements and say things.
And then, of course, Benton has been so good here.
Benton has a countenance about him and a demeanor.
Was there a time when you all began to think, okay, we have now entered the big league?
Was there something that happened nationally?
No.
Uh-uh.
We just chipped away.
When you begin to get visibility of certain programs, maybe a step for us, particularly our department, is when we hired Lynn Berry.
Dan Robertson took over in 81 or 82 I think as department head behind me.
I think Chuck Lamb or Bill Pride kind of did interim work or were department head, and then Dan Robertson came, and then Dan hired Lynn Berry, and Lynn Berry came in and began this Center for Retail Studies.
He's got a first-class operation over there.
Now, he stepped down.
It's going to be interesting to see what happens with him stepping down, but Lynn gave this college and this department a lot of visibility as a result of that.
All right.
You go back to the department.
You ceased being department head when?
Oh, about 79 or 80.
I had one four-year.
Okay.
And you started... Go ahead.
And I was going to say, what were your key courses then when you go back to the department?
Oh, I ran the undergraduate program from 80 to 90.
For the Department of Marketing?
For the College of Business.
Oh, the College of Business.
Yeah, I ran the undergraduate program.
Oh, describe that.
Well, that was a challenge.
If I would say my contribution was that.
What was the title?
I was assistant dean.
You were assistant dean for?
Assistant dean, and I kind of bucked politically for associate, but Mews would never, and now today it would be associate dean.
But then Bill wanted one associate, and Dan Robertson was assistant, ran the MBA.
I was assistant, and I ran the undergraduate.
And we reported to Bill Mobley, and Mobley then reported John.
It was pretty thin, pretty thin operation.
Describe the duties of that assistant dean then.
Well, my job was to run it.
So the first thing that I did, having come from what I thought was a great school, University of Illinois, and having for two years helped run as assistant dean, run the undergraduate programs for the College of Commerce there, I had a pretty good idea of what we wanted to do.
So I came in as assistant dean and began to say we're going to get rid of some dead weight.
I thought we were keeping too many undergraduate students here.
So formed an undergraduate committee and we began to work on the academic program for the College of Business.
Bill Mewes and myself and others, we traveled around, there were four or five of us, traveled around the United States looking at other undergraduate programs.
Bill Mewes wanted to ratchet this thing up.
And we went to Illinois, back to Illinois, went to Michigan State, went to Indiana, went to a variety of places.
And while we were there, we were trying to do some recruiting along the way.
But basically, look at their graduate programs, their undergraduate programs, and I looked at their undergraduate programs.
And so that's, we came back and we began to put this thing called the Common Body of Knowledge, where we put a set of courses together and said, you've got to take these courses and you've got to do so well.
I was also on the AOC, the academic deans thing for the assistant deans for rules and regs and I was a
I was a bear in there because I looked at the rules and regs and I just thought some of them were poorly worded, some of them weren't good, and I can still remember.
And at that time there was, who was registrar?
Ed Cooper.
Couldn't understand how Ed Cooper could be head of the academics for rules and regulation
and had to work a dean when he didn't even have a degree, you know, had to have a PhD, and so that was short-lived, and I think eventually that got, and McCandless came in under Calhoun or somebody and began running, but go back to there.
It was a struggle to try to get those other assistant deans to ratchet up, and I began to wiggle around and tweak some of the rules and regs so that I got a rule that said,
that it was, and Dan Falklust from Geosciences was on there, and Dan and I kind of shared the same idea about trying to ratchet the standard.
A fellow from history, Garland, I think was, Garland was over there.
as you know he's a little bit more liberal and he was a little more more tender-hearted and I wasn't quite that tender-hearted and and so we were always at odds about where the ratchet ought to be but one rule was and we got changed because we wanted the option a any college any a student any college you know a student who whose grade point
falls below a 2.0 in any semester may be put on probation by the dean of that college may so that meant there were only two colleges that did that geosciences and business and so what we began to do
Because that's what we did at Illinois.
Doesn't matter what your grade point is, you are on trial every semester.
And so, man, we'd have a thousand kids, you know, freshmen come in, we'd have a thousand kids on probation at the end.
But we had their attention.
And two semesters in a row, you're dead meat.
You're gone.
And so everybody was heading over to Suter's job over to Ag, or everybody was running the general studies.
or everybody was running the liberal arts that we were getting rid of.
And of course those people were saying, you're sending us the bottom end.
Well no, I'm not sending you, you don't have to take them.
But they wanted to take them.
So we began to play very, very, very hard-nosed academic performance.
And that was tough.
Took a lot of heat, a lot of stress from that.
But we ratcheted up the program.
In hindsight, you believe that was a good?
Oh, I know it is.
And we have, one of my disappointments is that we've moved off from that.
And, you know, there are, I have some feelings about how we run those academic programs, but that's, you know, that's just my opinion because of somebody else, and I'm not the dean.
And we, you know, we would take everything to the faculty.
The executive committee would approve of it if the faculty would approve.
And we would take it to the faculty and, of course, the faculty didn't really care.
They wanted somebody else to run the program.
And we just were sending them better kids all the time, getting them better kids.
And so when I stepped down, those things went away.
And part of it was is that the undergraduate programs office,
I mean we had to, we spent more and more money putting money into advisors and money into counselors because we were putting so many kids on probation.
And during that decade then, were you the person that was almost the counselor of last resort for the student who could come and ask for an exception, please allow me to stay another semester?
Well it didn't quite go that way.
I would, I would, I knew why they were there.
And I would say, please tell me why I should treat you differently than the others.
But you did hear it.
Oh, you heard them.
And I would say probably one out of ten.
Give this machine some examples of some exceptions you made that in hindsight you're glad you made.
Oh, I have one guy that for a semester had zero grade points on two semesters.
No, zero semesters.
And he had set out his two years and he came back.
And he had been on drugs.
And came back, admitted it, and he made four points the rest of the time he came back.
Had a paraplegic.
And he wanted to drop courses.
And I said, you signed up for those courses.
You take those courses.
Made a 4-0 that semester apparently in a wheelchair.
And he was a senior in accounting.
I said, you've been here.
He says, well I can't get around.
I said, don't give me that.
You've been here for four years.
You know how to get around.
You sit down and figure out your schedule.
Now you go out and do it.
And I guess he did it to show me because I got a 4.0 out of it.
And there's others that I think I did the right thing.
Part of this is trying to teach a lesson.
Sure.
A kid came in who didn't do well, put him on probation, and he came in the office to talk to me, and the reason he was on probation, his father
uh was ill with cancer i said why are you in school you yeah if this is what got you in this particular you don't need to be in school oh yes i need to be in school so he stayed in school his father died and he flunked out and he came to get back in and i said wait a minute i thought we had this conversation a semester ago yeah but i thought i could make it well you didn't did you yeah but my dad died yes we knew your dad would die
And I terminated him.
Now that sounds cruel, and it probably is.
I was raised by a tough love dad in a tough love family, and I raised my kids tough love.
And that may not be the right style, but that's my style.
All right, do you remember any time when a minority student or a female asked for any special?
Oh, yeah, but you couldn't, you can't, you don't do that.
What were some of their arguments?
Well, none of them, well, there might have been one or two that argued because of being their race, being black.
But you just, you never took it, you never got it to that.
Did any female?
Females haven't, but the minority students have said that what I'm doing is racist.
What about, did anybody try to intervene?
From the administration?
Or former students?
Oh, no.
Oh yeah, oh yeah, you have former students.
But you know, this happened, a lot of this happened under Mobley.
and they would call Mobley and this is why I liked Bill.
Bill would and he would and I think he enjoyed taking this course not enjoyed giving it but enjoyed taking it he said Mr. or Mrs. so-and-so or so the College of Business has faculty
that's why we took it to the faculty and the faculty the College of Business faculty have voted and supported this program and we understand that the uh what you're asking but we must treat everyone alike and sometimes we do things that other people don't particularly care for us to do but I hope you understand our position and he he was there to support
at no time absolutely no time did he say you need to reevaluate this and if we had a situation where a parent wanted to come in and argue it
I would come in, and he would come in, and he'd have his paddle down, and everything that student said, he would write it down.
Who is this?
Bill Mobley.
To show that he was interested in this student, that he was writing their things.
Then he would ask the people to leave, we would talk, and they would come out, and of course we knew what the answer would be.
Keep in mind, in the rules and regulations, there's always an appeal.
And, again, Linda and Bill go to our church, sit with you Sunday ago, you know.
Math, you know, he was a... Oh, Perry.
Yeah, Linda Perry.
Bill Perry was chairman of the Appeals Committee.
And I came in extremely prepared.
because we had a file on the student we had our letters we sent and you can ask Bill that I was probably one of the most prepared people and I don't I may have all out of 30 or 40 appeals lost one or two and I argued vehemently
I remember one time we had a guy from our department, from our college, because each college has an option on that appeals panel, I guess.
So I went on there, and we send the information ahead to each of the members of that appeals panel, and he says, man, this is cut and dried, Sam.
Cut and dried.
There's no way this kid's going to make it.
I went in and appealed, and I'll be damned if I lost.
and uh uh this guy he said well we just felt sorry for the guy I said sorry you you know and I ran all over him but uh
I don't think I lost very many of those because we had we clearly had a process by which we attempted to notify the student give an opportunity to the student to to improve themselves report to us and if they didn't they didn't clearly there were exceptions and we we before we ever dropped any student
We had a whole, it would have boxes of those who dropped, and we'd go through student by student by student.
The other, my coworker, myself, and we'd say, is there any reason?
Are there any reasons?
And one of the people that we had, Lynn Zimmerman, Lynn was very, very pro-student.
And so I would get Lynn in there and said, are there any of these students that we need to drop?
And he would pull one out and he said, well, let's talk about it.
Sometimes I would and sometimes I wouldn't.
But every student just didn't get, they got a form letter, but they didn't get the form letter without having been looked at very, very closely.
What were the other important responsibilities of the assistant dean?
Well, ours, I don't know, we were just in charge of, you know, the academic programs.
Did you, did you look at what courses were being offered at what hours, what semester?
No, no, no, that was departmental level.
Now I might give feedback that we need to the deans or to the department heads, because I went, I was at the EC,
And I may talk about feedback I get from the kids and send that on up to the department head.
Did you sometimes say to the departments, we need some more sections of this or that?
We will need it.
We can't, you know, maybe next year try to give them some input to it.
And, you know, along about that time in the mid-80s is when we began to put this electronically in.
I sat on that committee with
Carter and Cole.
Don Carter, Brian Cole.
Brian Cole and Don Gardner and William, Steve Williams, and we began to put together that SIMS program.
We did that.
That was a major thing that we did and that took a long time and that was a big, that was a big job and I feel, I feel good about it.
I was on the, when we put in the
core curriculum I was on that committee and that was a real
That was a real contest between those who wanted lighter requirements and those who didn't.
You're talking about the campus core curriculum?
The university core curriculum.
We initially, you know, said you got to have a year of the hard sciences and that went for a while and then after a while the Faculty Senate changed it.
Faculty Senate, by the way, you know, became
more active and vocal on that.
I served on the Faculty Center for six years and on the Executive Committee for two years.
there and again you had this contest between those who wanted to give the students more and those who wanted to tighten up for example the Q drop period.
The Q drop period is now out about 50 class days.
I think too long and so it used to be in the 30 or 40 days, 30 days.
At Illinois it was after the fifth class day.
You couldn't drop it.
I mean, you bought the ranch.
What should it be?
I don't believe in Q-drops.
I really don't.
I think there is enough information out there
enough information out there for you not to get blindsided on the class.
I used to think about, say, two weeks at the most.
Yeah, two weeks at the most because, and that's, you can't add, you're just going to drop.
And what we have, if you aren't careful, and this is what we had before we put in the QDROP, you'd have sign up for six and pick the past four.
And so we had a 20, it was really sign up for the five and pick the best four.
So you had a 20% enrollment piece in there.
And so it became that we weren't utilizing the space well.
I just think the students, I really think the students are treated too liberally.
During this period, do you remember any, during your dean day, your assistant dean days, do you remember any,
Politician, trying to pull a string.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, and you know I would, I, that wasn't my call.
That was, my response was if the Dean wants that student in,
He gets in.
If the president wants that student in, I let the dean know.
I get paid by the dean.
Did you sometimes get some calls directly to you that should have gone to the dean about some of these matters?
There would be a few, a rep.
A state rep.
A state rep would call.
It wouldn't get any higher than that, but a state rep.
This was... For Joe Johnny, so and so.
From his district.
Such a nice guy.
I've known his mom and dad.
And I would tell him very frankly that the student, I cannot let the student, however,
if the president wants that student in they're fine and of course the president want didn't want to take on that burden he got plenty of calls on that and so that normally ended it oh that ended it did did any uh of the these politicians ever get uh out of line not with me not enough huffier but
You know, another thing that I did that I'm proud of, I was on the faculty senate and I was on the executive committee and I chaired the committee that looked at academics and athletes.
There was this idea of the football players, the low, you know, graduation rate and Shelby with his atrocious graduation rates for the basketball teams and yet the guys were playing and people playing a semester but not attending class because of their last.
And so I took that on and knowing that that was not going to be a fun job.
And so I chaired that.
And we took college by college, took athlete, took sport by sport, athlete by athlete, and went through for the last three or four years.
And we found, you know, where a lot of people were, had they been on the College of Business, they wouldn't have.
For example, when I was deaning,
Whoever was the, I can't recall the gentleman's name, but the fellow was in charge of the academic side for the athletes over there, he would call me and say, Sam, I see that so-and-so, you're going to drop so-and-so and so-and-so that's on probation.
I said, yeah.
He says, don't send out that drop letter.
until monday and if i haven't found a home for them by monday you drop them so the guy would get out and then he would travel around campus and try to locate a home and then he'd say well i put so-and-so send so-and-so to this department in this college and so it became clear to me what what the academic the athlete and academic is no athlete is going to stay in school unless a dean lets him
So you can't look at Coach Sherrill at that time or Coach Ballard.
You can't look at Shelby Metcalf.
You can't look at any of these.
What you've got to look at is how does the dean run his program.
And I guarantee you, you go right now.
And you look at these two young men that are going pro.
And one of them plays in the backfield.
If you look at his record.
It's time for him to leave academics?
He failed to make a 2-0 any long semester.
You know he he made a 3-0 in the summer one time and he made a 2-0 in the summer one time but never made a 2-0 in any long term yet a college kept him.
Now what has happened of course is the college says I can't keep him and nobody else is going to put him up so what is the answer?
I think I've found my way I'm going to go the NFL.
I don't know about the other young man.
Did you ever have anybody in behalf of academics
try to strong arm you as assistant dean?
No, no.
They, no, uh-uh.
Am I, no, absolutely not.
And I think our reputation over here was, and of course you were gone by that time, Haskell, so you didn't experience it.
Let's see.
I've got a five o'clock,
tennis date okay all right we'll be through by the end oh we need to be through in about 15 minutes oh about 15 minutes oh okay it's four o'clock now yeah and i got to go home and change clothes and you know okay 4 20 at the least all right um you you go back to why did you leave deanie
Oh I think I'd done as much as I could it was uh it was it was same old same old.
Okay.
I'd taken it to where I wanted it or I could take it and if somebody's going to take it any place else it had to be somebody else other than me and you know just it just became a job.
All right and you started out under
Which dean?
Started out deaning under Mews.
Mews.
And went up to Benton.
Then Mobley, then Benton Kokenauer.
Kokenauer, one year with Benton, I think, or two.
How were they different in their dean style?
I never really got to know Benton that well.
You know I never got to.
Were there any particular changes though in his when he came in?
Oh yeah I think well I had to look at it from the undergraduate programs office.
I think that he didn't want those standards that I had.
Things now are not taken to the faculty, they're done by the EC.
Policy's done up there and the faculty aren't involved in it.
I felt that the faculty ought to be the
the ones that should do that, kind of like the Faculty Center, but Benton doesn't, for some reason, and we've never discussed this, so I can't say those are my perceptions.
And so I think just Benton wanted to change, and I was happy to make that change.
and he brought in Bill first, moved him up to associate dean, and Dan Robertson went down to the graduate college, and Wynn Sharon came up and ran the MBA program, and we just kind of moved on.
And so since then I've just helped out here as the department head.
Did, as the Wiener building is being planned, did faculty have any... No, there was a faculty committee.
Okay.
And Don Hellriegel, you know, kind of carried this through and a fellow by the name of Wickern, Dean Wickern, who came as head of the
Banner Department when John Dinko went over to run the computer facilities.
And then Wicker moved up to Associate Dean and he kind of worked on the building.
Don's worked on our addition that we had.
So yeah, we got pretty much
Did the building turn out pretty well?
Fundamentally, yeah, it turned out right.
We've got some classroom size anomalies, but we're going to solve those with the new wing that's coming on.
And right at the moment, we knew at the time that we didn't have enough space, but we were also told that we could use the space that AG has.
Well, AG says, yeah, you can have the space after we take out what we want.
and so we get the tale you know of the distribution of rooms we get the the eight the eight o'clock and and the threes o'clock on and they get the rest of them
How did the fun of moving to the Wainer Building compare with the fun of moving to the Blocker Building?
This was, in terms, you mean the task of doing it?
No, no, no.
Oh.
Because you all must have thought each of them was such a good step.
Oh, yeah.
This was, we were, we really loved it over here.
This is, you know, a palace over here.
And we thought the Blocker is a palace.
And you go over to the Blocker now and it's pretty worn down.
It needs a lot of work.
The only thing we've had a problem with was some leaky windows here.
But we've, you know, we've got, we've outgrown this building.
In fact, we had already outgrown this building by the time we moved in.
How large should the college of business be?
I haven't, I don't know what that is.
It can be as large as one as you want if you've got the faculty.
We just can't.
But what, I'm asking your opinion.
Given the realities of A&M, how large should it be?
I don't know what you mean by the realities of A&M.
If you want to be a top flight school, really a top flight school, I think we've got to have some more faculty or smaller, a smaller undergraduate college.
Now we're working at it, but again we, you know, there's the political realities.
You can't get too small.
When you, when, when you look at the University of Minnesota and it's, it's upper division programs,
because you stay at a lot of anything, you get a pop-up.
They don't have, they got less than 900 people, 900 undergraduates.
You're talking about junior, senior level?
Junior, senior level at the University of Minnesota.
University of Illinois probably doesn't have 3,000.
Oh, it has less, in total, probably has less than 1,500 undergraduates.
But yet their reputations.
You know, you've got great reputations.
Great reputations.
All right, let's make believe now you're the consultant.
to the Texas A&M College of Business, what advice would you give them for now and the future?
Oh, I wouldn't know what that was, Haskell.
There are too many political realities to this thing.